[MUSIC]
>> Male Student 1: What happens if
you give the text function we've
written an argument?
Will it be called or
will jQuery text function be called?
>> Brian Holt: Say that one more time.
>> Male Student 1: What happens if we give
the text function we've
written an argument?
Will it be called or
will the jQuery text function be called?
I guess, [INAUDIBLE].
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
So this is kind of talking
about overloading a method.
It doesn't exist in JavaScript.
>> Brian Holt: So the answer is,
if you call text with no
parameters versus one parameter,
versus two parameters it's not like Java
will actually refer to a different method.
It all refers to the same method.
And it's up to your JavaScript that
you write to deal with those different
parameters.
>> Brian Holt: Here we're now
actually going to leverage those anonymous
functions that we were talking about.
Something that happens, sorry.
Go ahead.
>> Male Student 1: Now I think they're
saying, what if you even just did
find your own function called
text.
>> Male Student 1: Object.text
versus dollar sign dot text.
If you created your own object and
had a text method on that.
>> Brian Holt: Which you
want to call?
>> Male Student 1: Right.
>> Brian Holt: I guest it depends
if it's a jQuery object,
if it is a jQuery object
you can't overwrite your text method and
then call your own.
That is a possibility.
>> Male Student 1: But
if it was a completely
separate object it would be
calling your implementation.
>> Brian Holt: Calling your
implementation.
So jQuery only modifies it's own objects.
It doesn't actually go and override other
things objects or methods or whatever.
Does that address it?
>> Male Student 1: I'll check here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, let's
talk about pressing buttons, right.
It's a common practice that you'll
press a button on a website.
And it'll do something, right.
So you want to have that ability
to react to user inputs.
So in this particular case,
we have a button right here.
So button class="alert-btn".
It says click me on it.
So now that we click it, it's gonna say,
hey there.
>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about
how we did that.
Let's just make this a lot bigger here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
we grab alert button here.
This should look familiar from
what we were doing last time.
And then there is a thing
called the .click function.
That's essentially saying, every time my
button gets clicked, run this function.
So again, I can click it again and
again, and again, and
again it happens every single time.
So what's actually happening
here in JavaScript or at least
in the dom which is the document object
model, we talked a little about that.
There is a thing called an event, so
every time I click on this, whether or
not I'm listening for
the event, it happens, right.
Like JavaScript,
like I'm clicking right here in the body.
JavaScript is throwing off all of these
events for me clicking on the body and
just nothing is happening because
no one is listening right.
It's kind of those things like
a tree falls in the forest kind of
problem, right.
So in this particular case, when we say,
call this .click function the tree is
falling in the forest and we're listening,
so it does make a sound.
>> Brian Holt: So
yeah, when call the click function,
it is essentially saying I want to be
notified when this event happens and
I want you to run this block of code.
All right, so here I'm saying,
alert("Hey there!"), so
every time this is clicked
it calls hey there.
That kinda make sense?
There's lots of events
in JavaScript [COUGH].
Click is just happens to be one of
the most commonly used one, right.
Because that's usually a direct sign of
user interaction with your website than
when they click on something,
they expect something to happen.
So you should be listening for it.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about
this?
>> Male Student 2: That single
click event or
the action of clicking on that button.
Actually, created a whole
stream of events, correct.
It's just that we're listening for
the alert button click.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Male Student 2: Cuz there's actually
a click in the context of the browser
window as well.
>> Brian Holt: Right.
Definitely.
>> Male Student 1: I didn't
catch all that.
It might have addressed that,
but they're asking, can you explain more
on how events are set up in the DOM and
how it exactly listens.
>> Brian Holt: The question is always
how much depth to go
into.
>> Brian Holt: I'm
gonna one defer to the other
jQuery class with Carl.
I'm sure he touches on it
much more than then I should.
But essentially every time that you
press a key, you click on something,
you move your mouse, your mouse enters
something, your mouse leaves something.
You push down the mouse button, you let up
the mouse button, you click the button,
you double click the button.
Those are all different events
that the browser will fire.
And essentially,
the browser does is it says, hey,
an event happened here and then it kinda
just bubbles up and different things.
So you can have multiple
things listening for example.
If I say, (' .alert-btn').click,
I mean this is contrived.
You really would just put it up here,
but let's just,
I can spell function.
>> Brian Holt: And
we'll say like.
>> Brian Holt:
$('alert-btn').text('changed'), right.
>> Brian Holt: Hope yeah,
period right there.
Okay, so
what I'm trying to demonstrate here is,
like these events bubble up, and there can
be many people listening for these events.
Essentially the browser says,
like hey this happened in the browser.
And like everything all your listeners
can say, like we don't care.
Like go pound sand or whatever.
Or they can say like, okay that happened
I care, I'm gonna fire off my code
now.
>> Brian Holt: So in this particular
case alert-btn now has two different
event listeners that are gonna
do different things based on those events.
>> Male Student 2: So just declaring that
jQuery function call registers the event.
There's no sequencing, or
no positioning dependency variable.
>> Brian Holt: It's really that
simple.
>> Brian Holt: And
again that's why we are going over jQuery,
it makes things like this just
deadly simple.
>> Male Student 2: They are just asking if
the onclick and
setting that to a function do it in HTML?
Is that the same thing we're doing here,
it's just jQuery's taking care of it?
>> Brian Holt: It amounts to be
the same thing.
That's a really bad way to do it.
You do not wanna put your
JavaScript into your HTML.
It's just, it's the worst
thing you can do for yourself.
Like stick to this.
Now if you want to ask me, can you do
it in raw JavaScript without jQuery?
That's fine,
you can totally do it that way and
just not use jQuery at all.
>> Male Student 2: What if you wanted to
reference something that
didn't have a tag, or
maybe does have a tag but
you don't know what it is.
Like you wanted to change
the nav bar on the browser.
Or you wanted to do some other device?
>> Brian Holt: You need some
way to get at it.
Whether that's a class, that's an ID,
it's a tag name, you can't get at
something if you don't know what it is.
So it can be defined dynamically, right.
Like I could have like.
>> Brian Holt: Var button, right.
And that's equal to this and
I can say, right there button and
here button as well.
So that can be filled in
later dynamically, right.
But you still have to give
it some indication like
this is what I'm listening for, right.
You can even get super annoying and
say, like body, right.
So any time the body is clicked,
it's gonna get really annoying with me.
>> Brian Holt: Don't
even have to click on the body anymore.
Oops, this page.
So again, that can be changed
it can be dynamic, right.
But.
>> Male Student 2: So it's only things
that are in the dom, not anything
that's outside in the browser itself?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
you can create synthetic events, right.
Like that's possible like the browser
generates a bunch of really useful events.
But you're talking about
outside the window.
>> Male Student 2: Outside of the DOM.
So if you wanted to modify,
there's websites you go to that open
additional tabs, or things like that that
are outside of the context of the DOM.
>> Brian Holt: So
your tab is pretty well sandboxed.
For example, my codepen tap,
cannot listen to my Google.
That's a huge privacy implication, right.
You don't want other people
listening on what you're doing.
So you are confine to your webpage,
whatever that is.
There's minor exceptions to it but
I won't worry about it.
You can only listen to your own stuff,
that's the bottom line.
>> Male Student 2: What if about things,
like if you were writing an app for like
a mobile device where you're looking for
tilt angle like an accelerometer or
something like that?
And how would you reference that event?
>> Brian Holt: So
the short answer to that is, a lot of
that can't be done in the browser.
You have to drop into a mobile app,
where you
actually have access to those APIs.
>> Male Student 1: Isn't there
accelerometer API.
>> Brian Holt: I think there is but
I've never used it.
So I'm not [INAUDIBLE].
>> Male Student 1: [INAUDIBLE]
Device orientation.
It's called device orientation API.
>> Male Student 2: Does GPS.
>> Male Student 1: Right.
Yeah.
[CROSSTALK] To get the way
that the API works.
>> Brian Holt: That one exists.
>> Male Student 1: You ask giant
permission to see location and
then user clicks yes,
and then you get a location out there.
And so it's called the view location API.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
some of it does exist.
But yeah.
>> Male Student 1: Some that's
to discuss in the intro to HTML 5,
and this three course [INAUDIBLE].
>> Brian Holt: Good question for
sure.
>> Female Student 1: So
there's a question of mine.
Somebody is asking, so you can define
it like this bar dollar sign element
with no parentheses equals
$ element with parenthesis.
I'm not sure if that makes sense.
>> Female Student 1: $
var $ element is not
really used in jQuery.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Male Student 1: Are you talking about
storing a reference to the jQuery object?
I think yeah, so
saying dollar sign button and
wrapping that in a jQuery and
then calling $(button).click.
>> Male Student 1: Put a dollar sign in
front of my button.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Male Student 1: To show that it's
a jQuery object.
>> Brian Holt: Something like that
is also possible.
You can store a reference
to these jQuery dom] notes,
also totally works.
>> Female Student 1: You
said it was really more of a statement?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
Yeah, this is a useful pattern as well.
So particularly if you can
reference it a bunch of times.
Every time you do this, this dollar sign,
it does a look up on the dom.
While it's quite fast, it's not free.
So if you're gonna reference it a bunch of
times, it's a good idea to store it and
then call those functions like that.